Let's start with a question,
What is CI anyway?
Well, CI stands for continuous integration.
As you can imagine, it has something to do with integrating
something and doing it continuously.
I think Atlassian has one of the best definitions out there.
Continuous integration is the practice of automating
the integration of code changes from
multiple contributors into a single software project.
You can think of CI as something that repeatedly facilitates
the combining of work of multiple developers into one product.
Once your team has continuous integration set up and running on every commit,
you'll notice some new doors opening up.
You'll have a singular,
unified, consistent build process.
You'll have automatically packaged downloadable "binaries".
You'll notice faster recovery from botched integrations.
My team has a saying, if you broke it,
you fix it, and your unit test suite is going to get some renewed respect.
You'll have greater transparency and communication amongst your teammates,
and you'll get to spend more time developing software and adding value.
Even though continuous integration,
CI and continuous deployment,
CD are often mentioned together,
they are different processes with very different goals.
The difference is mostly important when deciding triggers and timing.
There are times when you should run CI related jobs in pipelines,
but not anything related to CD.
There are even times when you might run CD and leave CI to rest,
and of course, there are perfectly valid scenarios when you
would want to run them both one after the other.
Continuous integration is all about the source code.
New changes to the code need to be validated, verified,
exercised, worked over, massaged,
and squeezed to see if there are any leaks.
We do this by compiling and transpiling, linting,
running unit tests, performing static analysis, things like that.
If the task has to do with source code,
it's part of CI.
On the other hand, continuous deployment is all about,
you guessed it, deployment.
Once a source code has been built in CI,
we're ready to ship it to servers and devices either in the same network or elsewhere.
Depending on your team's delivery process and deployment strategy,
you might deploy to a staging or pre-production server for final testing,
or you might deploy to production right away.
Before doing so, CD can run scripts to prepare the infrastructure,
run smoke tests, and handle roll back in reverse if something doesn't go as planned.
Understanding the difference between CI and CD will help
you be a better steward of the resources used by each.